Last time we have other than new field to the forum for submitting blog posts to contain the input that
will include a file and most importantly we have added the end type property to the forum itself.
So then it can upload files.
Now before we continue make sure that you have added this file system driver to your dot and file and
specify this as a public.
So we want to make the Default File System driver public.
And now those files that we will upload will be stored inside the storage up public folder and then
any other sub folders that we will use.
Now since this form is submitting to the store action of the post controller we should be able to access
the uploaded the file here.
So first let's learn about the basic methods that we can use for manipulating the file upload and the
first thing you can do is you can call the dump method which is just a lot of a function to display
some data on the screen.
It's kind of a debugging tool.
So what we can do is you can display using the request object that we have on our store action signature.
It has the method has file which we can use to verify if the user actually have uploaded any file because
this field as you've seen there you actually have to select a file only then it is being uploaded.
So this method will accept the name of those field as you remember the name was found nail so using
a request has file.
We can check whether the file was actually uploaded and now let's are the DI statement as we do not
really want to add blog posts at this time.
So let's put any valid data to title and content and select a file which can be a j pick file.
Anything will work.
Now when you press create you can see that we have shown true on the screen which means that the file
is there if you will go back and refresh the form and submit the correct data but without selecting
a file you will see false.
So you can always use request has filed to verify if the file was submitted.
Now let's store the result of this request has file called to has file variable and only if the file
was uploaded will try to fetch some additional information about this file upload
so first to fetch this file we have to call request file so this will return the file that was submitted
using specified field.
In this case it is fun.
Neil.
So now we should have an instance of the uploaded file class on the file variable and we can use that
to fetch some additional properties of this file.
So here let's also do dump file and now let's read some additional information about that file.
So what you can get is Get client mind type which would return the MIME type of the file you will see
that in seconds what this returns.
Also you can get the client or regional extension which would mean what extension was specified for
that file.
You can also use that to guess what type of file that is And finally let's also out this dump for his
file.
Now save the changes.
So when you refresh refresh a form without a file you should still see falls
now.
Well we actually have to move this as file to the top.
Otherwise it won't be visible.
If the file wasn't submitted.
Okay.
Now let's refresh the forum which didn't contain a file and you see falls which means file wasn't uploaded.
But now this time let's select JP GIF file so this would be an image.
So first thing you see on the top is true.
Which means the file is there.
Now we have an instance of the uploaded file which you can see we are dumping their file object here
and we have plenty of information about this file.
So you have the original name you have in mind type.
Also there is the path name which is the temporary location where the file is stored.
So whenever you upload files in BHP it will put them first to a temporary location.
This also includes the file name temporary name and also you can read that file size in bytes.
Now the next thing we dumped was the MIME type.
So you can see that the mind type is image slash JPEG.
And then there is the original extension of that file.
Okay so we know how to check if the file was submitted.
We also know how to fetch some information about that uploaded file.
Now let's see how we can store them using the lot of us storage mechanism now let's see how we can actually
move this file to a permanent location.
So this is actually pretty simple.
Of course the you can use the storage fast phosphate directly but also lava comes with a very handy
method of the uploaded file which is called store and you don't even have to figure out the extension
of that file.
You don't have to do anything you can for example only supply the folder you would like to store it
in so let it let it be farmed nails and basically that's it.
The file would be stored there and let's see how that works.
So refresh the request where you had a file included.
And now it should be stored.
So now let's go to the directory where we have the larval application.
So as I've said we have configured couple of disks or there they were actually configured by default.
And we have used the public disk by default and inside the file system the public disk is configured
to store files locally using the local driver and the root of where they should be stored.
Is that up public inside this storage folder so let's go to the storage folder there is the app folder
public folder and you see that new folder thumbnails was created which is happening to match the name
of the folder we given this file store method to store that file in.
But when you will go inside it you can see that the uploaded image is there.
It has also generated name which is unique for the files and it also contains an extension.
So this is basically what you have to do to store the files.
The most simplest way and additionally we can also dump the file name that was generated so the store
method would return the file name where this was actually stored on the file system so let's also see
this.
So we'll refresh the page where you have the file submitted.
And the last element that we have dumped is actually this file inside this storage folder so you will
then be able to store this inside the database.
We'll do that in the next lectures.
Actually we will create another model for storing images.
But this is the most basic example that you can do to store files.
Obviously this can be found inside the repository the link is included but will it work on this in the
next lecture so you will know all the things you can do with that storage first aid.